>> Richard Feldman: Custom types,
all right.
So we're gonna talk about a few
things here, case expressions,
enumerations, which is
one use of custom types,
containers, which is another more
exciting use of custom types.
And finally we're gonna talk
about variant functions.
Okay, so, we're gonna start
adding some features to our feed.
We've been sort of building up this
feed as we've been going along.
We've added some interactivity.
We've added the banner and the tags.
And now, we're gonna actually add some new
stuff on top of what we've already built.
So specifically, we're gonna add
pagination to the end of the feed.
So at the bottom of the feed,
we're gonna have this big long list of all
the different pages of results in the feed
and make it so you can click a different
page in order to go to that page of
articles and we're going to add some Tabs.
So previously we had this popular tags.
When you clicked it,
the tag itself turned green.
But now we're gonna have
multiple different Tabs.
So one is Your Feed which is to say all
the articles that you've favorited.
Another is Global Feed,
which is all the articles.
Completely unfiltered,
just every article out there.
And then, the third tab is optional and
it's only when you've clicked on a tag.
When you click on one of the tags,
it sort of shows this third tab,
which is based on the particular
tag that you selected.
And then, that's gonna work the same way
as what we did in the last two exercises.
Okay, so we're gonna run in to
some challenges along the way as
we implement these and
we're going to solve them.
So, first thing that we're gonna run into
is, how should we represent this tab bar?
So one way we could do
this is we could say okay,
well I'm gonna have a new field and
model called tab, which is a string.
And it just says yeah, this is
the particular tab that I'm on right now.
Maybe it's on YourFeed, maybe it's on
GlobalFeed, maybe it's on a TagFeed.
Okay, that's the way we could do that and
then inside the view we could say
I'm gonna have a three way if.
So I'm gonna have if model.tab == your
feed then I'm going to have your feed.
Else if it's GlobalFeed then
I'm going to have GlobalFeed.
Otherwise, through process of
elimination it must be the Tag feed.
So when can just show that there.
By the way, you might notice
that we're using else if here.
There is no actual separate
syntactic thing for else if in elm.
This just works by virtue of how if and
else already work.
Basically, if this is true,
we're gonna run this,
else if this is true we're gonna run this,
else we're gonna run this,
this is basically just two if
expressions just stapled together.
There's no separate syntactic construct
for else if, it's not special.
Okay, another way we could do this,
is we could refactor it to be like this.
case model.tab of, then we say
YourFeed ->, GlobalFeed -> and _ ->.
These are equivalent.
So this is a case expression in elm and
the way that it works is
you give it a subject.
And then it's gonna compare that
subject in a couple of different ways.
And if the subject matches.
So in this case, if this string is exactly
equal to this, it's run the first branch.
Otherwise, if it matches this second one
then it's gonna run the second brand and
otherwise the underscore
is the default branch.
And then it's gonna say okay,
we didn't run any of the others so
we're gonna run this one.
Just like with the if expressions you
have to be exhaustive here, you have to
enumerate all the possibilities and if you
can't enumerate all of them exhaustively.
Which is to say there are still other
strings out there in the world then you
need some sort of underscore for
a default branch,
just like you need else
at the end of an if.
So these two though are basically
doing the same thing.
It's just two different ways
to write the same thing.
Questions about case expressions.
Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: Are there restrictions on
what types you can have that match as far
as what you're looking for on of case.
>> Richard Feldman: Got you.
Are there restrictions on what types you
can be looking for?
Yeah, there are.
So you can do this with basically strings,
some of the primitives.
Strings, numbers, booleans,
custom types which
we'll get into shortly,
and records a little bit.
And you can't do a function.
So there's no way to say like case, I
don't know, list dot filter of and then I
don't even know what that will look like,
but you can't do [LAUGH] walking file.
Serious, there are a few that you can do.
One other quick note on this is, that this
is the other case of Elm where indentation
matters, so the first was let expressions.
Every declaration in a let expression
had to be the same indentation level.
Same deal here.
Every one of these cases,
every one of these patterns has to
have the same indentation level.
Those are the only two places in
Elm where indentation matters.